Introduce credential, initiator and series[] (#111)
clearhaus/gateway-api-docs: source/index.html.md

necessary for approval of credits. It may be provided through the optional
parameter `card[name]`.

## Series of transactions

> Clearhaus currently supports the recurring type of subscription billing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clearhaus supports the recurring type of subscription billing.
```
After restructuring away from the enumeration list, _only_ has become an unnecessary filler

  --data-urlencode "card[3dsecure][v2][rreq]=<some-rreq-value>" \
  -H "Signature: <signing-api-key> RS256-hex <signature>"
````

Example response (snippet):

````json
{
    "id": "1b722683-92ad-4c6b-85da-e119d550670d",
    "status": { "code": 20000 }
}
````

This should be followed by a capture.

Subsequent-in-series recurring authorizations initiated by the merchant are
made similarly, however, CSC is not included, and the previous-in-series is
referenced, e.g.:

````shell
curl -X POST \
  https://gateway.test.clearhaus.com/authorizations \
  -u <your-api-key>:  \
  -d "amount=2050"    \
  -d "currency=EUR"   \
  -d "series[previous][id]=1b722683-92ad-4c6b-85da-e119d550670d" \
  -d "card[pan]=4111111111111111" \
  -d "card[expire_month]=06"      \
  -d "card[expire_year]=2026"     \
  -H "Signature: <signing-api-key> RS256-hex <signature>"
````

A first-in-series authorization can also be made using the `applepay`
payment method; subsequent-in-series authorizations, however,
must be made using the `card` payment method using the card details of the
referenced previous-in-series authorization.

Any first-in-series authorization must be made with strong customer

> authentication (SCA) regardless of the authorization amount.

Reviewer 2: And if not a "one-leg out"?

Author: https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/118

necessary for approval of credits. It may be provided through the optional
parameter `card[name]`.

## Series of transactions

> Clearhaus currently support only one type of subscription billing:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clearhaus currently supports only one type of subscription billing:
```

Reviewer 3: https://erinwrightwriting.com/singular-or-plural-pronouns-for-a-company/

> British English generally treats collective nouns as plural rather than singular. So, if you follow British English instead of American English, you can usually use the plural third-person pronouns *they*, *them*, *their*, and *themselves* for an individual company.

However, I believe we use American English in our code and documentation (e.g. authorization, not authorisation).

Reviewer 3: And let me add "argh, wtf, why are there so significant differences between British and American English!?" :cry:

* Recurring: Transactions processed at predetermined, regular intervals not

>     exceeding 1 year; e.g. a monthly subscription for a magazine.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps make it explicitly clear if a 12 month interval is ok or not.

Author: 🤔 I am not even sure we know for sure; WDYT @AlexanderIversen?

Reviewer 4: From Mastercard Transaction Processing Rules I have the following quote: 

> Use may occur periodically, such as on a monthly, quarterly, or
annual basis, or as needed to “top up” the Cardholder’s account with the
Merchant (Transaction Processing Rules, 13 August 2020, p. 158)

This is not very specific but I agree that intervals should not exceed 1 year (1 year and 1 day) but I agree with @mt-clearhaus that an interval can be 1 year is OK. 

From Visa Core Rules I have the following: 

> A Transaction in a series of Transactions that use a Stored Credential
and that are processed at fixed, regular intervals (not to exceed one
year between Transactions), representing Cardholder agreement for
the Merchant to initiate future Transactions for the purchase of goods
or services provided at regular intervals. (Visa Core Rules, 18 August 2020, p. 1126)

Visas statement is actually more precise. They state that intervals cannot exceed 1 year between transactions.

Author: Leap years? 😆

Author: ```suggestion
    exceeding 366 days; e.g. a monthly subscription for a magazine.
```
WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I like it :smile: :+1: Because of `>` rather than `>=` it allows for leap years.

Reviewer 3: But then, uhm, permaybehaps "exceeding 1 year" isn't too bad after all :thinking: 

When reading it the first time, I wasn't sure it would be ok to charge once a year, but the second time around I find it "not that bad".

Author: I think I'll keep the original text and just allow it to be imprecise. If necessary we'll elaborate in the guideline or fix if enough people are asking 🙂

There may be an agreed end of the series.

### Repeatedly reserve money

> A first-in-series recurring payment is made by making an authorization and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A first-in-series recurring payment is initiated by making an authorization and
```

Author: It's just that "initiated" is now getting some kind of meaning — "initiating" a transaction is now smelling like "the party that initiated it — CIT or MIT" ... WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I see your point. I only wanted something else than "is made by making" :slightly_smiling_face: 

Perhaps just "is created by making"?

Author: ```suggestion
A first-in-series recurring payment is created by making an authorization and
```

marking it as a `recurring` series. As an example, a first-in-series recurring
payment could be made this way:

````shell
curl -X POST \
  https://gateway.test.clearhaus.com/authorizations \
  -u <your-api-key>:  \
  -d "amount=2050"    \
  -d "currency=EUR"   \
  -d "series[type]=recurring"     \
  -d "card[pan]=4111111111111111" \
  -d "card[expire_month]=06"      \
  -d "card[expire_year]=2026"     \
  -d "card[csc]=123"              \
  --data-urlencode "card[3dsecure][v2][rreq]=<some-rreq-value>" \
  -H "Signature: <signing-api-key> RS256-hex <signature>"
````

Example response (snippet):

````json
{
    "id": "1b722683-92ad-4c6b-85da-e119d550670d",
    "status": { "code": 20000 }
}
````

This should be followed by a capture.

> Subsequent recurring authorizations initiated by the merchant are made
> similarly, however, CSC is not included, and the previous-in-series is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Subsequent-in-series recurring authorizations initiated by the merchant are
made similarly, however, CSC is not included, and the previous-in-series is
```

referenced, e.g.:

````shell
curl -X POST \
  https://gateway.test.clearhaus.com/authorizations \
  -u <your-api-key>:  \
  -d "amount=2050"    \
  -d "currency=EUR"   \
  -d "series[previous][id]=1b722683-92ad-4c6b-85da-e119d550670d" \
  -d "card[pan]=4111111111111111" \
  -d "card[expire_month]=06"      \
  -d "card[expire_year]=2026"     \
  -H "Signature: <signing-api-key> RS256-hex <signature>"
````

> A first-in-series authorization can also be made using the `applepay`

Reviewer 3: I suppose Samsung Pay, Google Pay and MPO as well?

Author: Regarding Google Pay and Samsung Pay: Only after https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/69 and https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/103 (resp.) has been merged 🙂

MPO does not allow recurring on card payments — they have MPO subscriptions and that's a different kind of beast:
* https://developer.mobilepay.dk/subscriptions-main
* https://www.mobilepay.dk/erhverv/abonnementer%20og%20fakturering/mobilepay%20subscriptions

payment method; subsequent-in-series authorizations, however,
must be made using the `card` payment method using the card details of the

> previous-in-series authorization referenced.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
referenced previous-in-series authorization.
```

    weekly but only for weeks when the service is used.

The amount may vary among transactions in a series, but may not exceed the
authentication amount of the first-in-series authorization.
There may be an agreed end of the series.

### Repeatedly reserve money

A first-in-series payment is made by making an authorization and marking it as a
`recurring` or `unscheduled` series. For instance, a first-in-series recurring
payment could be made this way:

````shell
curl -X POST \
  https://gateway.test.clearhaus.com/authorizations \
  -u <your-api-key>:  \
  -d "amount=2050"    \
  -d "currency=EUR"   \
  -d "series[type]=recurring"     \
  -d "card[pan]=4111111111111111" \
  -d "card[expire_month]=06"      \
  -d "card[expire_year]=2026"     \
  -d "card[csc]=123"              \
  --data-urlencode "card[3dsecure][v2][rreq]=<some-rreq-value>" \
  -H "Signature: <signing-api-key> RS256-hex <signature>"
````

Example response (snippet):

````json
{
    "id": "1b722683-92ad-4c6b-85da-e119d550670d",
    "status": { "code": 20000 }
}
````

This should be followed by a capture.

Subsequent recurring authorizations initiated by the merchant are made

> similarly, however, CSC would not be included, and the previous-in-series is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
similarly, however, CSC is not included, and the previous-in-series is
```

  <dd>
    Amount in minor units of given currency (e.g. cents if in Euro).
  </dd>

  <dt>currency
    <span class="type">[A-Z]{3}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    <a target="_blank" href="currencies.txt">3-letter currency code</a>. (Some exponents differ from ISO 4217.)
  </dd>

  <dt>credential
    <span class="type">(<code>storing</code>|<code>using</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Indicate if the payment credential (e.g. PAN and expiry) will be stored for

>     a later transaction where the payment credential is not provided by the

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: `s/a later transaction/future use/`

Author: ```suggestion
    future use where the payment credential is not provided by the
```

    cardholder but collected from (encrypted) storage.
    <br />
    <code>storing</code>: The payment credential will be stored; may only be
    stored if the authorization is approved.
    <br />

>     <code>using</code>: The payment credential was already stored and are now

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <code>using</code>: The payment credential has already been stored and is now
```

    being used.
    <br />
    If <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code> then

>     <code>storing</code> is invalid and <code>using</code> is assumed.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to be further polished and writting using bullets: "If `initiator` is `merchant` then: a) `storing` is invalid and will cause an input error, and b) `using` is assumed if `credential` is left out."

Also, add "if `credential` is left out" to the next line (554). Of course that's also just a suggestion.

Author: Fixed by e4a6aebaf5e53b32346e1cb0199460b395865f85

    For a first-in-series authorization, <code>storing</code> is assumed.

    <div class="type">Optional</code>
  </dd>

  <dt>initiator
    <span class="type">(<code>cardholder</code>|<code>merchant</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The initiator of the authorization. An authorization is initiated by the
    cardholder if the cardholder decided the transaction should be created.

>     This is regardless of whether stored payment credential is being used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This is regardless of whether a stored payment credential is being used.
```

Author: I am in doubt if we want to word it like "using a stored credential" or "using stored credential". Looking at Visa, they use both; perhaps there's some systematism that I just don't get?

Reviewer 3: I think my suggestion was prompted by "**the** payment credential" in many of the above lines.

I don't think there is any systematism about this in scheme documentation, however, I don't know for sure.

    <br />
    For compliance reasons there should be a previous approved transaction
    marked with <code>storing</code> before <code>initiator</code> may be
    <code>merchant</code>.

>     For subsequent-in-series authorizations, <code>merchant</code> is assumed;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For subsequent-in-series authorizations, if <code>initiator</code> is left out, <code>merchant</code> is assumed;
```

To be in line with my previous suggestions regarding lines 553-554. I don't really like the phrase "left out" :man_shrugging:

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/commits/e4a6aebaf5e53b32346e1cb0199460b395865f85#diff-d30d91dbcd59693b69f9242acb4630c5R601-R606

    otherwise, <code>cardholder</code> is assumed.

    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>ip
    <span class="type">[0-9.a-fA-F:]{3,45}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Cardholder's IP address. It must be a valid v4 or v6 address.
    <div class="type">Optional<br></div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[type]
    <span class="type">(<code>recurring</code>|<code>unscheduled</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Indicate the type of series.
    <br />
    <code>recurring</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has
    explicitly agreed that the merchant will repeatedly charge the cardholder at
    regular, predetermined intervals.
    <br />
    <code>unscheduled</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has
    explicitly agreed that the merchant will repeatedly charge the cardholder at
    unknown times, e.g. based on cardholder usage.
    <br />
    Although the amount may vary among transactions in any series, the amount
    of any subsequent-in-series transaction can not exceed the amount of the

>     authentication of the first-in-series authorization.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps emphasize "authentication" somehow?

Author: Good thinking.

I initially emphasized "can not exceed", but discarded that because I thought that just about every other word in the sentence is equally important. Dunno, really ... 🙂

If you give it a second thought and agree, then please feel free to push or drop a "PR suggestion" — I'll do the same if you don't beat me to it 🙂

    <div class="type">Conditional. Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[previous][id]
    <span class="type">[:UUIDv4:]</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The Clearhaus authorization ID as a reference to the latest approved
    authorization in the series. The authorization is processed as a
    first-in-series if not populated while <code>series[type]</code> is

>     populated.

Reviewer 3: I think something is wrong with this sentence?

"a is processed as b if not populated while c is populated"

I'm confused :smile:

Author: I see that this became confusingly minimalistic.

Let me try to "de-confuse" 😄

> "a is processed as b if <this field, implicitly> [is] not populated while [in the sense "but"] c is populated"

I'll try to fix the wording 🙂

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/commits/e4a6aebaf5e53b32346e1cb0199460b395865f85#diff-d30d91dbcd59693b69f9242acb4630c5R647-R650

    <br />
    Can be used only with payment method <code>card</code>.
    <br />
    If the latest approved authorization in the series was not processed via
    Clearhaus, after obtaining explicit approval from Clearhaus, you can
    provide raw scheme values; see
    <a href="#scheme-reference-to-series">Scheme reference to series</a>.

    <div class="type">Conditional. Cannot be present if <code>series[type]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>

> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>ip
    <span class="type">[0-9.a-fA-F:]{3,45}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Cardholder's IP address. It must be a valid v4 or v6 address.
    <div class="type">Optional<br></div>
  </dd>

  <dt>reference
    <span class="type">[\x20-\x7E]{1,30}
      <a target="_blank" href= "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII#ASCII_printable_characters">
        ASCII printable characters
      </a>
    </span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    A reference to an external object, such as an order number.
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[type]
    <span class="type"><code>recurring</code></span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The type of series.
    <br />
    <code>recurring</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has
    explicitly agreed that the merchant may repeatedly charge the cardholder at
    regular, predetermined intervals that may not exceed 1 year.

    <div class="type">Conditional. Cannot be present if <code>series[previous]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[previous][id]
    <span class="type">[:UUIDv4:]</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The Clearhaus authorization ID as a reference to the latest approved

>     authorization in the series.

Reviewer 2: Must it be *the* latest or could it be any in the series?

Author: Should be *the* latest. Another previous-in-series may work, but we aim to increase our garbage collection of old transactions — but we'll ensure the latest is available as long as the series can be continued 🙂

    <br />
    <code>store</code>: The payment credential will be stored; it may only be
    stored if the authorization is approved.
    <br />
    <code>use</code>: The payment credential has already been stored and is now
    being used.
    <br />
    Default:
    <ul>
      <li><code>use</code>, if <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code>
      (<code>store</code> is invalid),</li>
      <li><code>store</code>, if the authorization is first-in-series.</li>
    </ul>

    <div class="type">Optional</code>
  </dd>

  <dt>initiator
    <span class="type">(<code>cardholder</code>|<code>merchant</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The initiator of the authorization. An authorization is initiated by the
    cardholder if the cardholder decided the transaction should be created.
    This is regardless of whether a stored payment credential is being used.
    <br />
    For compliance reasons there should be a previous approved transaction (for
    the cardholder and the merchant) marked with <code>storing</code> before
    <code>initiator</code> may be <code>merchant</code>.
    <br />
    Default:
    <ul>
      <li><code>merchant</code>, if the authorization is

>       subsequent-in-subsequent (<code>cardholder</code> is invalid),</li>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      subsequent-in-series recurring (<code>cardholder</code> is invalid),</li>
```

Reviewer: At some point we will expand bullet-list in the `Series of transactions` section to also include UCOF and all that jazz. So lets remove the recurring?

Reviewer 3: Good point :+1:

Author: But still "subsequent-in-subsequent" is nonsense, so lemme suggest ...

```suggestion
      subsequent-in-series (<code>cardholder</code> is invalid),</li>
```

      <li><code>cardholder</code>, otherwise.</li>
    </ul>

    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>ip
    <span class="type">[0-9.a-fA-F:]{3,45}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Cardholder's IP address. It must be a valid v4 or v6 address.
    <div class="type">Optional<br></div>
  </dd>

  <dt>reference
    <span class="type">[\x20-\x7E]{1,30}
      <a target="_blank" href= "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII#ASCII_printable_characters">
        ASCII printable characters
      </a>
    </span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    A reference to an external object, such as an order number.
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[type]
    <span class="type"><code>recurring</code></span>
  </dt>
  <dd>

>     Indicate the type of series.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The type of series.
```

    <br />
    <code>recurring</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has

>     explicitly agreed that the merchant will repeatedly charge the cardholder at

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    explicitly agreed that the merchant may repeatedly charge the cardholder at
```

>     regular, predetermined intervals that may not exceed 1 year.

Reviewer 3: I've also read this above. Perhaps remove the redundancy.

Reviewer 3: The part about not exceeding 1 year.

Reviewer 3: (in line 341)

Author: Fixed in ada4b57.

>     <div class="type">Conditional. Cannot be present if <code>series[previous]</code> is present.</div>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <div class="type">
      Conditional. Cannot be present if <code>series[previous]</code> is
      present. This means that the type of an existing series cannot be
      changed.
    </div>
```

Author: I agree that we should explicitly mention that "This means that the type of an existing series cannot be changed.", however, I am not sure it belongs here. Perhaps some "Notice block" somewhere below? WDYT?

Reviewer 3: A notice block would be fine :+1: I just think it ought to be somewhere. Perhaps it fits somewhat better in a notice block rather than here.

Author: 436a301

  <dd>
    Amount in minor units of given currency (e.g. cents if in Euro).
  </dd>

  <dt>currency
    <span class="type">[A-Z]{3}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    <a target="_blank" href="currencies.txt">3-letter currency code</a>. (Some exponents differ from ISO 4217.)
  </dd>

  <dt>credential

>     <span class="type">(<code>storing</code>|<code>using</code>)</span>

Author: ```suggestion
    <span class="type">(<code>storing</code>|<code>from_storage</code>)</span>
```
WDYT @clearhaus/pci?

Reviewer 3: `from_storage` might be a tad better than `using` because we have chosen `credential` rather than `cof`.

Author: Let's "unfold" the `cof` stuff over there: https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r497447364

Author: Migrated to https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r524296900.

  <dd>
    Amount in minor units of given currency (e.g. cents if in Euro).
  </dd>

  <dt>currency
    <span class="type">[A-Z]{3}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    <a target="_blank" href="currencies.txt">3-letter currency code</a>. (Some exponents differ from ISO 4217.)
  </dd>

>   <dt>credential
>     <span class="type">(<code>storing</code>|<code>using</code>)</span>

Author: Two points:

1. We use `text_on_statement` to avoid the TLA `tos`; likewise, we should just use `credential_on_file`.
2. It is hard not to like the simplicity/brevity of `store|use` (courtesy @mt-clearhaus, https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r500507071).

Thus:

```suggestion
  <dt>credential_on_file
    <span class="type">(<code>store</code>|<code>use</code>)</span>
```

In return I have marked https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r497447364 and https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r497425813 as resolved.

  </dt>
  <dd>
    Indicate if the payment credential (e.g. PAN and expiry) will be stored for
    future use where the payment credential is not provided by the
    cardholder but collected from (encrypted) storage.
    <br />

>     <code>store</code>: The payment credential will be stored; may only be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <code>store</code>: The payment credential will be stored; it may only be
```

>     <code>storing</code>: The payment credential will be stored; may only be
>     stored if the authorization is approved.
>     <br />
>     <code>using</code>: The payment credential has already been stored and is now
>     being used.
>     <br />
>     Default:
>     <ul>
>       <li><code>using</code>, if <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code>
>       (<code>storing</code> is invalid),</li>
>       <li><code>storing</code>, if the authorization is first-in-series.</li>
>     </ul>

Author: Consequence of https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r524296900.

```suggestion
    <code>store</code>: The payment credential will be stored; may only be
    stored if the authorization is approved.
    <br />
    <code>use</code>: The payment credential has already been stored and is now
    being used.
    <br />
    Default:
    <ul>
      <li><code>use</code>, if <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code>
      (<code>store</code> is invalid),</li>
      <li><code>store</code>, if the authorization is first-in-series.</li>
    </ul>
```

  <dd>
    Amount in minor units of given currency (e.g. cents if in Euro).
  </dd>

  <dt>currency
    <span class="type">[A-Z]{3}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    <a target="_blank" href="currencies.txt">3-letter currency code</a>. (Some exponents differ from ISO 4217.)
  </dd>

>   <dt>credential

Author: ```suggestion
  <dt>cof
```

Author: In no specific order:
1. `cof = (first|subsequent)`
2. `cof = (store|use)`
3. `cof = (storing|using)`

Reviewer 3: I like the simplicity/brevity of 2, and I find the phrases "store credential of file" and "use credential on file" meaningful and clear :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: I have a 🥩 with `cof` — that it's a TLA that we need to explain. That's why I tried to come up with something that could compete, and my best attempt was if we are `storing [the] credential` or `[grabbing the] credential from_storage` (with `using` I was trying to communicate `using [stored] credential`, but the `stored` piece is pretty important word to describe the right intent).

Author: Migrated to https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/files#r524296900.

  </dt>
  <dd>
    Cardholder's IP address. It must be a valid v4 or v6 address.
    <div class="type">Optional<br></div>
  </dd>

  <dt>reference
    <span class="type">[\x20-\x7E]{1,30}
      <a target="_blank" href= "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII#ASCII_printable_characters">
        ASCII printable characters
      </a>
    </span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    A reference to an external object, such as an order number.
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[type]
    <span class="type">(<code>recurring</code>|<code>unscheduled</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Indicate the type of series.
    <br />
    <code>recurring</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has
    explicitly agreed that the merchant will repeatedly charge the cardholder at
    regular, predetermined intervals that may not exceed 1 year.
    <br />
    <code>unscheduled</code>: A series of transactions where the cardholder has
    explicitly agreed that the merchant will repeatedly charge the cardholder at
    unknown times, e.g. based on cardholder usage.
    <br />
    Although the amount may vary among transactions in any series, the amount

>     of any subsequent-in-series transaction can not exceed the amount of the
>     authentication of the first-in-series authorization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    of any subsequent-in-series transaction may not exceed the amount of the
    <b>authentication</b> of the first-in-series authorization.
```

Author: 😄 I actually wrote `may` first, but ... oh well ... https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/56065/must-not-or-may-not-which-is-the-most-correct

We should probably use "RFC style" wording — and reference https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119

Reviewer 3: I also like "must", perhaps better than "may", however, I think "cannot" isn't quite correct :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer: Are we going to enforce this? Can not (can) imply that we return an error if you try. Must/may not more has a "it is on you to secure".

Reviewer 3: @ad-clearhaus Although I don't agree with your interpretation of the words, I think whether or not we will enforce the rule is a very relevant question.

Author: We cannot (`:tøhø:`) enforce it because we are blind about the authentication amount.

It is a compliance-wise "it wrong if you do" — if scheme or issuer declines, I have no clue, but they ought to decline.

Perhaps we should move this entire section into the guideline?

Reviewer: Maybe this should indeed be moved to guidelines.
We are not going to enforce it. The issuers should enforce it and decline. Which is fine. Then we can return that to the PSP's. As it stands we have no transaction evidence pointing towards the issuers actually declining.
To me, this issue seems like something where we need to see over time how the ecosystem reacts.

But I still think, in guidelines or not, that _cannot_ should be replaced by _must_ ;)

Author: Resolved by 8415d33.

>     of any subsequent-in-series transaction can not exceed the amount of the
>     authentication of the first-in-series authorization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    of any subsequent-in-series transaction must not exceed the amount of the
    <b>authentication</b> of the first-in-series authorization.
```

Author: Someone can interpret this as "it doesn't *have* to exceed ..." 😜

Reviewer 3: I can accept "cannot" :stuck_out_tongue: 

Alternatively, "must be less than or equal to the amount of the" :smile:

    A reference to an external object, such as an order number.
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <!-- deprecated -->
  <dt><strike>recurring</strike>
    <span class="type">(true|false)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Deprecated! Please use <code>series</code>.

>   </dd>

Reviewer 3: I think we ought to update the examples here and there to use `series` rather than the deprecated `recurring`.

Reviewer 3: E.g. in line 361.

Reviewer 3: I understand that this doesn't make sense before the new parameters have stabilized.

Author: I'll fix this 🙂

Author: Was fixed by https://github.com/clearhaus/gateway-api-docs/pull/111/commits/87a8acf89466d7c1d3d8a1ea4f0cd244630e379c#diff-d30d91dbcd59693b69f9242acb4630c5R364

    <div class="type">May not be all digits, all same character, or all sequential characters (e.g. "abc")</div>
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <!-- deprecated -->
  <dt><strike>recurring</strike>
    <span class="type">(true|false)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Deprecated! Please use <code>series</code>.
    <br />
    <div class="type">Optional. Cannot be used with <code>series</code> or
    <code>initiator</code>.</div>
  </dd>
</dl>

<p class="alert alert-info">

>   <b>Notice:</b> When <code>recurring</code> is used, Clearhaus automatically
>   identify if there was a previous-in-series and together with the level of
>   authentication (CSC, 3-D Secure, etc.) conclude if the payment is a first
>   recurring or a subsequent recurring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <b>Notice:</b> When <code>recurring</code> is used, Clearhaus automatically
  identifies if there was a previous-in-series and if that is the case uses the
  level of authentication (CSC, 3-D Secure, etc.) to conclude if the payment is
  a first-in-in-series or a subsequent-in-series recurring.
```

    <div class="type">May not be all digits, all same character, or all sequential characters (e.g. "abc")</div>
    <div class="type">Optional</div>
  </dd>

  <!-- deprecated -->
  <dt><strike>recurring</strike>
    <span class="type">(true|false)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Deprecated! Please use <code>series</code>.
    <br />
    <div class="type">Optional. Cannot be used with <code>series</code> or
    <code>initiator</code>.</div>
  </dd>
</dl>

<p class="alert alert-info">
  <b>Notice:</b> When <code>recurring</code> is used, Clearhaus automatically
  identifies if there was a previous-in-series and if that is the case uses the
  level of authentication (CSC, 3-D Secure, etc.) to conclude if the payment is
  a first-in-in-series or a subsequent-in-series recurring.
</p>

<p class="alert alert-info">
  <b>Notice:</b> Since <code>series[type]</code> cannot be supplied together

>   with <code>series[previous]</code>, a series will stay of the same type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  with <code>series[previous]</code>, the type of a series cannot change.
```

Reviewer 3: Of course: :golfing: :man_shrugging:

  </dd>
</dl>

##### Scheme reference to series

If the previous-in-series authorization was made via this API, you should use
`series[previous][id]` to reference the previous-in-series authorization.

> Otherwise, you must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use these raw

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Otherwise, you must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use the raw
```

scheme values grouped in <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> and
<code>series[previous][visa]</code>.

The Mastercard specific reference to the series contains the following parts.

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][tid]

>     <span class="type">[A-z0-9]{3}[A-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4}[ ]{2}</span>

Reviewer 3: In other places we use `A-Za-z`.

Author: Nice catch!

I preferred the shorter one here because the regex is already pretty long 🙁

WDYT? Should we adjust the rest or this one? Or keep it inconsistent (me not like)?

Reviewer 3: https://stackoverflow.com/a/4923397

```
> /[A-z]/ =~ ']'
=> 0
```

  </dt>
  <dd>
    Trace ID being the concatenation of values
    Data element 63 subfield 1 (Financial Network Code) (position 1-3),
    Data element 63 subfield 2 (Banknet Reference Number) (position 4-9),
    Data element 15 (Date, Settlement) (position 10-13), and
    two spaces;
    to be used in Data Element 48, Subfield 63.

    <div class="type">Optional. Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> or <code>series[previous][visa]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][tokenized]
    <span class="type">(true|false)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>

>     Indicate if the series was initiated with a tokenized payment method.

Reviewer 3: We might need to add some additional explanation.

Author: I didn't think about that, but you're right, we definitely do!

I'm in doubt if it should it go here or in a guideline — WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I lean towards putting it in a guideline rather than having it here.

Are we sure that "tokenized payment method" is correct wording? For instance, Google Pay, a payment method, can be both tokenized and non-tokenized :man_shrugging:

Author: > Are we sure "tokenized payment method" is correct wording? For instance, Google Pay, a payment method, can be both tokenized and non-tokenized 🤷‍♂️

Luckily the current documented version (on `master`) doesn't support Google Pay 😄

Though, I think we should just word it like this:
```suggestion
    Indicate if the series was initiated with a tokenized payment.
```

Reviewer 3: I think that works well :+1:

  </dd>
</dl>

##### Scheme reference to series

> If the previous-in-series authorization was made via this API, you should use
> `series[previous][id]` to reference the previous-in-series authorization.
> Otherwise, you must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use the raw
> scheme values grouped in <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> and
> <code>series[previous][visa]</code>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the previous-in-series authorization was made via this API, you must use
`series[previous][id]` to reference it. If it was not made via this API, you 
must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use the raw scheme values
grouped in <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> and
<code>series[previous][visa]</code>. This is relevant when moving subscriptions
to Clearhaus from another acquirer.
```

> The Mastercard specific reference to the series contains the following parts.

Reviewer: Flip order to start with Visa?

Author: I've tried to alphabetize 🤷‍♂️ WDYT?

Reviewer: > I've tried to alphabetize 

That was my hunch. :smile: 

Maybe I am colored by my surroundings. But we usually focus on Visa first for several reasons:
* Visa is the biggest of the two schemes globally
* Visa is bigger in Clearhaus' portfolio
* Mastercard is very small in DK, and we still have a DK market bias
* Historically Visa has taken the lead and Mastercard has followed after changing the namingscheme

Am I wrong?

Author: You are right AFAICT. (On the last bullet, I guess it depends on the context.) Feel free to push 🙂

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][tid]

>     <span class="type">[A-Za-z0-9]{3}[A-Za-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4}[ ]{2}</span>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <span class="type">[A-Za-z0-9]{3}[A-Za-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4} {2}</span>
```

I think the financial network code and Banknet reference number are always upper case, but I'm not completely certain.

Author: > I think the financial network code and Banknet reference number are always upper case, but I'm not completely certain.

Agreed. However, can we actually know for sure? @AlexanderIversen, do you know?

    Data element 63 subfield 1 (Financial Network Code) (position 1-3),
    Data element 63 subfield 2 (Banknet Reference Number) (position 4-9),
    Data element 15 (Date, Settlement) (position 10-13), and
    two spaces;
    to be used in Data Element 48, Subfield 63.

    <div class="type">Conditional.
    Required if <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> is present.
    Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> or
    <code>series[previous][visa]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>

  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][exemption]
    <span class="type">(<code>fixed_amount_series</code>|<code>variable_amount_series</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    The <i>Mastercard exemption</i> to be used for the series indicating if the
    series is a fixed-amount or a variable-amount series.
    <ul>
      <li><code>fixed_amount_series</code>:
        The series is a fixed-amount series. (MPMI value <code>03</code>.)
      </li>
      <li><code>variable_amount_series</code>:
        The series is a variable-amount series. (MPMI value <code>01</code>.)
        A <i>Mastercard exemption</i> (not formally an acquirer exemption for

>         SCA) indicating that the transaction is out of scope for SCA.

Reviewer 3: Uhm, but MIT **is** "formally" a Mastercard acquirer exemption for SCA?

Reviewer 3: It is not for Visa.

Author: Well, Mastercard does not mention MPMI = `01` as an exemption, but as an indication that it's out of scope — but they're also using the word "exemption" when talking about the MPMI field itself 🤷‍♂️

I'm understanding it as if they're being veeery slippery and working around PSD2 RTS regarding the requirement for SCA for amount adjustments and fixed amount recurring (and the internal conflict in the RTS that payment instruments may not be discriminated) 😃
Visa took it by the horns and kinda just allows themselves to disagree with the RTS.

I am definitely nowhere near quadratic on how we should word this. I am very open for suggestions 🙂

Reviewer 3: I was surprised to read about MPMI values here. Are they really necessary? Does the audience need to know? I haven't (yet) read about them anywhere else, and I think I've read a fair amount of PSD2 SCA documents. If we zoom out, a number of SCA acquirer exemptions exist, and some of them are shared by both schemes, and some of them are only for one of them. AFAICS, MIT is an exemption only for Mastercard. Visa just says MIT is out of scope rather than define an exemption. In this context I don't understand the parenthesis in "A Mastercard exemption (not formally an acquirer exemption for SCA) [...]", and my reaction was actually only to related to that.

But it's certainly a minefield :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Shortly regarding MPMI: We haven't thought about this issue before, it was only now I realized that the consequences of a subsequent-in-series being marked with MPMI `01` or `03`.

If a previous-in-series created via another acquirer was a first-in-series, then the PSP should choose if the current subsequent-in-series (the first subsequent in series, because the previous was a first-in-series) should allow for varying amount or not.

If a previous-in-series created via another acquirer was a subsequent-in-series, then the PSP should make the MPMI match the one used for the previous-in-series. Otherwise, the series change between being a varying-amount and fixed-amount series.

Reviewer 3: Argh. Indeed not simple, but it makes good sense then. I assume this is or will be a part of our separate guide.

      </li>
    </ul>
    If the previous-in-series is a subsequent-in-series it should be equal to
    the <i>Mastercard exemption</i> applied for the previous-in-series.
    The value originates from Mastercard Data element 48, Subelement 22,
    Subfield 1 named "Multi-Purpose Merchant Indicator (MPMI).

>     The value <code>01</code> indicates variable-amount whereas <code>01</code>
>     indicates fixed-amount.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The value <code>01</code> indicates variable amount whereas <code>01</code>
    indicates fixed amount.
```

Author: I firstly wrote it as is (with dashes), then went back and removed them (because it's wrong), but then I figured that it maybe confuse some or maybe make it harder to search, so I inserted the dashes again. But since you noticed, let's remove them 😄

    <br />

>     Clearhaus will use the same <i>Mastercard exemption</i> for the entire
>     series when later referring to the previous-in-series via
>     <code>series[previous][id]</code>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Clearhaus uses the same <i>Mastercard exemption</i> for an entire series
    when a previous-in-series authorization in the series is referenced via
    <code>series[previous][id]</code>.
```

Author: It is so incredibly nice that you stumble upon this and correct it! It's just so much better. Thanks! 🙇‍♂️

    <div class="type">Conditional.
    Required if <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> is present.
    Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> or
    <code>series[previous][visa]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>
</dl>

The Visa specific reference to the series has only one part.

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][visa][tid]
    <span class="type">[0-9]{15}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>

>     Transaction ID from Field 62.2 of the first (or previous) in series

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Transaction ID from Field 62.2 of the first-in-series or previous-in-series
```

  </dd>
</dl>

##### Scheme reference to series

If the previous-in-series authorization was made via this API, you must use
`series[previous][id]` to reference it. If it was not made via this API, you 
must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use the raw scheme values
grouped in <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> and
<code>series[previous][visa]</code>. This is relevant when moving subscriptions
to Clearhaus from another acquirer.

The Mastercard specific reference to the series contains the following parts.

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][tid]
    <span class="type">[A-Za-z0-9]{3}[A-Za-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4} {2}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Trace ID being the concatenation of values
    Data element 63 subfield 1 (Financial Network Code) (position 1-3),
    Data element 63 subfield 2 (Banknet Reference Number) (position 4-9),

>     Data element 15 (Date, Settlement) (position 10-13), and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Data element 15 (Date, Settlement, in MMDD format) (position 10-13), and
```

Source: Mastercard's Customer Interface Specification

  </dd>
</dl>

##### Scheme reference to series

If the previous-in-series authorization was made via this API, you should use
`series[previous][id]` to reference the previous-in-series authorization.
Otherwise, you must obtain explicit approval from Clearhaus to use the raw
scheme values grouped in <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> and
<code>series[previous][visa]</code>.

The Mastercard specific reference to the series contains the following parts.

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][tid]

>     <span class="type">[A-z0-9]{3}[A-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4}[ ]{2}</span>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <span class="type">[A-Za-z0-9]{3}[A-Za-z0-9]{6}[0-9]{4}[ ]{2}</span>
```

    indicates fixed amount.

    <br />
    Clearhaus uses the same <i>Mastercard exemption</i> for an entire series
    when a previous-in-series authorization in the series is referenced via
    <code>series[previous][id]</code>.

    <div class="type">Conditional.
    Required if <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> is present.
    Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> or
    <code>series[previous][visa]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>
</dl>

The Visa specific reference to the series has only one part.

<dl class="dl-vertical">
  <dt>
    series[previous][visa][tid]
    <span class="type">[0-9]{15}</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>
    Transaction ID from Field 62.2 of the first-in-series or previous-in-series
    authorization; to be used in Field 125, Usage 2, Dataset ID 03.

    <div class="type">Optional.
    Cannot be present if <code>series[previous][id]</code> or
    <code>series[previous][mastercard]</code> is present.</div>
  </dd>
</dl>

<p class="alert alert-info">
  <b>Notice:</b> A series migrated to Clearhaus using these scheme references
  cannot be continued with the now deprecated <code>recurring</code> flag.

>   Instead, the subsequent-in-series following an authorization using scheme
>   references must use <code>series[previous][id]</code> to point to the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Instead, the subsequent-in-series following an authorization created using
  scheme references must use <code>series[previous][id]</code> to point to the
```

  <dt>
    series[previous][mastercard][exemption]
    <span class="type">(<code>fixed_amount_series</code>|<code>variable_amount_series</code>)</span>
  </dt>
  <dd>

>     The <i>Mastercard exemption</i> to be used for the series indicating if the
>     series is a fixed-amount or a variable-amount series.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The <i>Mastercard exemption</i> is used to indicate if the series is 
    fixed-amount or a variable-amount.
```

  </dd>
</dl>

<p class="alert alert-info">
<b>Notice:</b> Implicitly, <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code> and

> <code>credential</code> is <code>used</code>.

Author: Consequence:

```suggestion
<code>credential_on_file</code> is <code>use</code>.
```

  </dd>
</dl>

<p class="alert alert-info">
<b>Notice:</b> Implicitly, <code>initiator</code> is <code>merchant</code> and
<code>credential_on_file</code> is <code>use</code>.
</p>

> 

Reviewer 3: Aah, for a capture?

Author: Fro a credit ... or ... am I misunderstanding something?

Reviewer 3: Right! This is placed under Credits. I'm sorry about the noise.
